# TDT4250-Group-Project
## Description
This is a modelling project using EMF to model and generate code for an android application. The app is called **RecipeExplorer** and lets you explore recipes based on different filtering-criterea, these are fetched from the Spoonacular API (https://spoonacular.com/food-api). What is modelled and generated is the detailed recipe page that appears when you click on a search-result. This page contains different information about the recipe. The metamodel and dsl-syntax enables you to customize the appearance of the page with regards to what information is displayed and where.

We have used **ecore** for making the metamodel, **xtext** for defining a concrete syntax, and **xtend** for generating code (both kotlin and xml).

## Project structure
The project is divided in two; one folder for the EMF files, and one containing the android application. 
### EMF
The EMF-folder contains a bunch of plugin-projects, most notably
* `no.ntnu.4250.recipe`: holds ecore-model code, defining the metamodel
* `no.ntnu.4250.recipe.dsl`: contains xtext code that defines a syntax for our DSL
* `no.ntnu.4250.recipe.generator`: contains xtend code for code generation and script for moving files
### App
Like stated via email, the app was created specifically for this project as our original idea to use an already existing project similar to this would have meant a tremendous amount of work to revive and alter it, so it would fit to the task specified. The chosen approach manifests a proof of concept. The app essentially consists of three types of files spread over various folders (apply the `App`-view in the left upper corner Android Studio):
* `/app/res/layout`: Here the XML-files (.xml) reside which define the layout/UI of the app. Every screen of the app as well as some elements of a screen each have their own XML-file defining their structure
* `/app/kotlin+java/com.example.recipeexplorer`: Here the Kotlin-files (.kt) reside which connect and manipulate the layout and implement the logic of the app
  * /fragments holds the logic for all fragments, so the screens of which the app consists of
  * /adapter holds code necessary for the implementation of the list of recipes with arbitary length
  * /querying holds code responsible for fetching recipes from Spoonacular
* `/app/Gradle Scripts`: Here the Gradle-files (.kts) reside which include the libraries and plugins used in the implementation of the app
All other files are generated by Android Studio and are part of the general file structure of an app

! Note that the generated files are present twice, the manually written version (\<filename\>.\<file-suffix\>) and the generated version (\<filename\>_generated.\<file-suffix\>). The app uses the generated version to build !

## Walkthrough
### Making a model
1. Open the `EMF`-folder in Eclipse
2. Open the Runtime Workbench (e.g. by right-clicking the `no.ntnu.4250.recipe` project and clicking **Run As** -> **Eclipse Application**)
3. In the new window, open the `no.ntnu.4250.recipe.generator` project
4. Right-click on the project and click **New** -> **File**
5. Name your model and make sure it ends with `.recipedsl`. Click **Finish**
6. The file is probably going to open in the regular **Text Editor**, but we want to open the file in **RecipeDSL Editor**. Close the Text Editor window and right-click on your `.recipedsl`-file. Click **Open With** -> **RecipeDSL Editor**
7. Create a model! The syntax is described in `recipedsl_grammar_guide.md`

**NB**: It is important that your `.recipedsl`-file is saved in the `no.ntnu.4250.recipe.generator` project for code-generation to work. If it isn't, move it here.

### Generating code
1. Go back to the standard version of Eclipse and navigate into `no.ntnu.4250.recipe.generator/src/no.ntnu.4250.recipe.generator`
2. Open `GeneratorRunner.xtend`
3. Edit line 21 (`val model = "standard.recipedsl"`). Replace `standard.recipedsl` with the filename your new model.
4. Right-click `GeneratorRunner.xtend` and click **Run As** -> **Java Application**. This will generate the neceassary files and place them in `generated` folder.
5. Open a terminal in the root directory of the `no.ntnu.4250.recipe.generator` project
6. Run `./move-files.sh`. This will move all the generated files into correct locations in the android project.

The generated code concists of 3 files:
* `fragment_detailed_result_generated.xml`: UI-file similar to HTML. Defines the UI of the recipe details page.
* `DetailedResultFragmentGenerated.kt`: Logic for the UI-file. 
* `API_GET_Data_Generated.kt`: API-logic. Which vitamins to show is defined here.

### Running the app
1. Open the `RecipeExplorer` project (under `app`) in Android Studio
2. Run the app on a android emulator or locally on your android phone
